fxtrans - The Functional XML Transformation Tool
Version 4.1, June 05, 2003

by Alexandru Berlea, University of Trier
   aberlea@psi.uni-trier.de

What is fxt?
---------------
fxt is an XML documents transformation tool. It is written in the functional 
programming language SML, based on the XML parser fxp and the XML
querying tool fxgrep. Given a transformation specification, 
it produces a program that performs the specified transformation on
XML documents.

Installation
------------
In order to install fxt, you need an SML compiler. The current version
of fxt has been tested with version 110.0.7 of SML of New Jersey, but
it might also run with other versions. The compiler must have the
compilation manager (CM) built in, which is the default when
installing SML-NJ. We successfully compiled fxt on Linux. For other
unices we expect no problems; compiling with the Windows version of
SML-NJ has not been tried.

These are the steps for installing fxt under Unix: 

    1. Download and install the latest version of fxp
       (http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~aberlea/Fxp/); 
    2. Download the latest version of fxt;
    3. Unpack the sources, and change to the fxt directory, e.g.: 

         gunzip -c fxt-4.1.tar.gz | tar xf -
         cd fxt-4.1

    4. Read the COPYRIGHT; 
    5. Edit the Makefile according to your needs. Probably you will only have 
       to change the following: 

         FXP_LIBDIR     is where the fxp library was installed. This should
                        be set to the same path as for the installation of
                        fxp; it must contain the file fxlib.cm. Make sure
                        that fxp was compiled with the same version of SML-NJ.   
         FXT_BINDIR is where the executable will be installed; 
         FXT_LIBDIR is where the heap image of by fxt will be installed; 
         SML_BINDIR     is the directory where the SML executables are found. 
                        It must contain the .arch-n-opsys script from the 
                        SML-NJ distribution, so make sure that this is where 
                        SML-NJ is physically installed; 
         SML_EXEC       is the name of the SML executable. This is the program 
                        that is called for generating the heap image and at 
                        execution of fxt. If sml will be in your PATH at 
                        installation time, you don't need the full path here. 

    6. Compile fxt by typing make; 
    7. Install fxt by typing make install. 

If you experience problems installing fxt, send me a mail.
Check out for new versions at 
        http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~aberlea/Fxgrep.

Alexandru Berlea.
